README.md, before:

Rusty Wheels
============

Persistence of Vision bike wheel LEDS, using a Raspberry Pi Zero, Rust and 46
RGB LEDs.

Software
--------

This repo, on top of Raspberry Pi OS.

Build with cargo.

Turn on spi in /boot/config.txt:

```
dtparam=spi=on
```

This should make these device files exist:

```
/dev/spidev0.0  /dev/spidev0.1
```

Configure the power off button on GPIO3, in /boot/config.txt:

```
dtoverlay=gpio-shutdown
```


Download this font
gttps://gitlab.freedesktop.org/xorg/font/misc-misc/-/blob/master/5x7.bdf and
save it as font.bdf in the working directory where the code runs.


Each time before running
------------------------

Run this to make GPIO27 be an input with pullup: this is for the magnet
sensor.

```
raspi-gpio set 27 ip pu
```


Hardware
--------

* Raspberry Pi Zero
* 46 DotStar RGB LEDs, cut into two strips, one for each side of the wheel
* Hall effect magnetic sensor: Hobbytronics A1120EUA-T Hall Effect Switch
* Magnet
* Level shifter: v1 = SparkFun BOB-12009; v2, I'm hacking around with
  PCA9306 https://www.sparkfun.com/products/15439; v3 no level shifter
* Perma-proto board
* Screw terminals x 7
* Buttons x 3

GPIO connections:

* Hall effect sensor: GPIO27
* DotStar LEDs (SPI) (via level shifter in v1 and v2) MOSI and CLK
* Buttons: Smart power button: between SCL (aka GPIO3) and 0v. Other
  two buttons to GPIO12, GPIO13

Screw terminals:

* 3 for hall effect sensor
* 4 for dotstar LEDs
* 3 for external buttons (v3 only - unused so far)

Commit message:

Add README configuration for default magnet pin mode

README.md, after:

Rusty Wheels
============

Persistence of Vision bike wheel LEDS, using a Raspberry Pi Zero, Rust and 46
RGB LEDs.

Software
--------

This repo, on top of Raspberry Pi OS.

Build with cargo.

Turn on spi in /boot/config.txt:

```
dtparam=spi=on
```

This should make these device files exist:

```
/dev/spidev0.0  /dev/spidev0.1
```

Configure the default mode of the magnet GPIO pin, in /boot/config.txt:

```
gpio=27=ip,pu
```

Configure the power off button on GPIO3, in /boot/config.txt:

```
dtoverlay=gpio-shutdown
```


Download this font
gttps://gitlab.freedesktop.org/xorg/font/misc-misc/-/blob/master/5x7.bdf and
save it as font.bdf in the working directory where the code runs.


Each time before running
------------------------

Run this to make GPIO27 be an input with pullup: this is for the magnet
sensor.

```
raspi-gpio set 27 ip pu
```


Hardware
--------

* Raspberry Pi Zero
* 46 DotStar RGB LEDs, cut into two strips, one for each side of the wheel
* Hall effect magnetic sensor: Hobbytronics A1120EUA-T Hall Effect Switch
* Magnet
* Level shifter: v1 = SparkFun BOB-12009; v2, I'm hacking around with
  PCA9306 https://www.sparkfun.com/products/15439; v3 no level shifter
* Perma-proto board
* Screw terminals x 7
* Buttons x 3

GPIO connections:

* Hall effect sensor: GPIO27
* DotStar LEDs (SPI) (via level shifter in v1 and v2) MOSI and CLK
* Buttons: Smart power button: between SCL (aka GPIO3) and 0v. Other
  two buttons to GPIO12, GPIO13

Screw terminals:

* 3 for hall effect sensor
* 4 for dotstar LEDs
* 3 for external buttons (v3 only - unused so far)
